knitting daily has been sponsored in
part by webs
America's yarn store a source for
knitting and crocheting yarns and
supplies yarn calm hi we're here today
in beautiful Long Beach California with
designer jarred flood hi Jared thank you
for joining you today thanks so much for
having me
oh you're welcome I'd be here wonderful
every designer has their own unique take
on knitwear design and I'd like to hear
some of your techniques alright well I
think I approach I approach knitwear
from a very technical standpoint of I
guess when I'm starting a design it
usually starts at either the yarn or a
technique that I'm really interested in
exploring or tweaking a little bit I'm
really inspired by traditional handed
and technique and the history of hand
knitting and things like that and I like
to sort of take those inspirations and
put them into something that is wearable
for today's you know today's wardrobe
this is really catching my eye over here
this beautiful color work it's just so
beautiful this is one of the techniques
that you've developed not know not
necessarily these are just feral hats
these are all done stranded knitting to
color stranded knitting this is for
color here and you know one one design
maybe can be a couple different ways
it's the same motif same pattern same
yarn and we have a beanie version in
four colors and a tan version in two and
that just kind of comes out of wanting
to explore something until you feel like
you're done with it and sometimes you
get multiple versions now the motif is
your own design though yeah how do you
how do you design an original motif I
like to just sort of
sit down and start free-forming it
whether that's on paper or on the
computer I use a computer a lot when I'm
doing charting so there I'll work or
just making charts or textured patterns
and things like that okay Wow it's
absolutely beautiful
now do you use your welcome do you use
that same sort of technique when you're
designing garments as well at a certain
stage yet we'll move over to the
computer but to start with with larger
garments or lace things like that more
hand sketching things to get ideas or I
take a lot of inspiration from
photography and things like that so I'm
kind of collecting images collecting
sources and then once there's something
something there with the yarn that I
think is right then we'll kind of move
more to the technical side
I hear you also have a new technique to
share with me yeah I'm going to show you
this is a free hat pattern that's on the
website that it's just a simple beanie
pattern and it uses worsted weight yarns
it's a great pattern for you know scraps
you can get two or three out of just two
balls oh wow which is nice but we are
using a worsted weight solid yarn here
and a worsted weight self striping yarn
here which as you can see when you're
striping with a self striping yarn and
you get a little bit of the yarn works
for you a little bit because it looks
like you're using more than just right
it looks a lot more kind of one color so
this is a just a regular striped cap but
on top there's a four four points of
double decrease and kind of turns those
rings of stripe into squares so that's a
beautiful design element as well based
on how that so these double decreases
are just combinations I've knit two
together and slip slip knit which are
right-leaning and left-leaning decreases
and I'm just wanted to quickly show you
today a better way of doing a
left-leaning decrease because a lot of
times with this standard traditional
slip slip knit you get a little bit of
looseness versus the really clean lines
of a knit two together so you use this
also on other garments not just unhappy
a lot of solutions for making a cleaner
left-leaning decrease and some of them
are more involved another I'm going to
show you one that's really simple to
just substitute for what you may already
do right thank you I'm so excited so the
first step is the same as you would
normally do you always slip the first
stitch as if to knit the second step
a little bit different instead of
slipping the second is to knit like you
would normally do in a traditional slip
submit you're going to go into the
stitch as if to purl like you're going
to slip it as if to purl okay now you
don't even need to slip this needle off
slip the stitch off of the left-hand
needle because you're going to finish
this off by knitting both of these
stitches together through the back loop
oh okay when you go into the second
stitch as if to purl you just swing it
around you're already in bring the yarn
around and you just did it and that
first stitch is going to lay a little
bit flatter if you do that simple
modification that is a great technique
for a decrease I love how smooth and
finished that looks
that's that's wonderful Jared thank you
so much it's been a pleasure having you
here today Thanks knitting daily make
time for yarn every day visit knitting
daily tv.com for free access to all of
the project instructions ideas tips and
techniques from this season of knitting
daily this is show 504 take your
knitting to the next level visit
knitting daily tv.com for your free
ebook --let of 30 knitting techniques
for beginner knitting and beyond from
the designers featured on knitting daily
TV if you enjoy today's show and want
more tips tricks and great guest
appearances a DVD set of knitting daily
TV series 500 is now available on
knitting daily tv.com enjoy your
favorite shows from this season plus 3
bonus lessons from host Unni Jane
each DVD set is $39.99 plus shipping and
handling